Here the feedback from
[jbalat](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YMQGmuYA6Vg), a long time user
of TSDZ2 that already did more than 5000kms on it:

*I think the new firmware has given the motor new life. (\...) it feels
much more responsive and actually gives you more power as you spin out
instead of dropping off like the original firmware. That is what I
wanted so it now feels more like the Bosch motor.*

*In fact the old firmware would feel like you are hitting a brick wall
the faster you peddle but with this firmware it feels like a breath of
fresh air. The faster you want to go the more it helps you.* *When I got
right near the end and still had some battery left I pumped the power up
to 550W and was able to ride comfortably at 38km/hr with little effort.
I would not have been able to do this with the old firmware with a
battery that was so low.*

And the feedback from EndlessCadence user:

*(the Flexible OpenSource firmware) This is GOLD. The power, the
smoothness\... It\'s amazing! I still have a smile on my face. The bike
feels very responsive and is very fast and agile whenever you need it
to. It was also very smooth and powerful on a small hill.*

And the feedback from bart1006 user:

*I just had my first test ride with the opensource firmware. Jiiihhaaa!!
:D :D :D* *Way and way better than I expected. How it picks up the power
support is really super. I also have a bosch motor and this comes pretty
close. The info which the firmware is showing on lcd makes the total
package way better for me.*

And the feedback from wheex user:

*I tried the new opensource firmware and it\'s awesome much more
efficient, stronger (\...) Thanks casainho to made this, with the new
firmware it\'s feel like I have a new motor.*

Also, for casainho (the developer that started this project), it is
strategic to use and help develop OpenSource knowledge and technology
for EBike motor controllers, because it is really important to create
better alternatives to fight against the Climate Change \-- here [words
of Pope
Francis](https://www.reuters.com/article/us-pope-environment-excerpts/excerpts-from-pope-francis-encyclical-on-the-environment-idUSKBN0OY17320150618):

*There is an urgent need to develop policies so that, in the next few
years, the emission of carbon dioxide and other highly polluting gases
can be drastically reduced, for example, substituting for fossil fuels
and developing sources of renewable energy.* \[This assertion is
scientifically dubious\]

See here a [Youtube video review done by Jbalat
user](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IrWn6e8bIuQ):

<https://github.com/OpenSource-EBike-firmware/TSDZ2_wiki/blob/master/youtube_review.jpg>
